This model describes glucose kinetics in humans. The most innovative features with respect to previous quantitative descriptions of glucose kinetics is the description of  glucose uptake as a Michaelis-Menten function of glucose at the site of action, in which the saturation level is a sigmoidal function of insulin at the site of action. This model was able to fit accurately the glucose tracer concentration values measured during euglycemic and hyperglycemic clamps and oral tests, in 123 subjects spanning the glucose tolerance range. Moreover, this model is consistent with the basic notions on glucose transport, and is able to reproduce the suppression of glucose clearance due to hyperglycemia observed in many studies.

This model implementation is used for glucose tracer data simulation, while the related publication uses real data to estimate the model parameters.  

The dataset uploaded to this repository ("Simulated_glucoseKinetics.csv") provides simulated data for 123 subjects undergoing different tests: a three-step hyperglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp (HGclamp, N = 8); a two-step isoglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp (ISOclamp, N = 8); a paired oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp in the same volunteers (OGTT/clamp, N = 8); a mixed-meal test (MTT, N = 91); and a paired mixed-meal test and hyperglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp in the same subjects (MTT/clamp, N = 8). The total number of subjects (123) and the proportions of subjects involved in the different tests are as in the related publication. Differently from the real original dataset, the insulin and glucose time-courses and the glucose tracer rates of infusion (and/or bolus amounts), which the model needs as inputs, are the same for all the subjects undergoing the same test. Moreover, the subjects identifiers are different for the test pairs undergone by the same subject. These model inputs, and the parameter values reported in the related publication, were used to simulate the glucose tracer data (the model output).

The model in PharmML language is obtained from automatic translation from MDL to PharmML. The original model (presented with the related publication) was developed with Monolix 4.3.2. The uploaded MDL and PharmML codes are not executable using Monolix as the target software because of issued in the translation from MDL/PharmML to the files required by Monolix. Therefore, the executable files to be used with Monolix 4.3.2 are uploaded.

The R script uploaded to this repository ("Command.txt") translates the MDL file into a PharmML file, and uses the Simulated_glucoseKinetics.csv file and the executable Monolix files to simulate and plot new tracer concentration time-courses for the 7 tests considered in the original publication. Mean ± SEM as error bars or grey areas are depicted for the model-predicted glucose tracer concentrations. The quoted text in the figure labels indicates the test in the two studies with paired tests (OGTT/clamp and MTT/clamp). The produced figure ("glucoseKineticsPLOT.pdf") corresponds to Figure 3 in the related publication: the discrepancies between the profiles simulated with this model implementation and those obtained from the real data fit are due to the different model inputs. The new simulated dataset ("Output_simulated_glucoseKinetics.txt") contains the same data provided with the Simulated_glucoseKinetics.csv file, only the format is different.
